README.md, before:

<p align="center">
 <img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/selemondev/vscode-shadcn-svelte/master/src/images/icon.png" height="96" />
 <h1 align="center">
  shadcn-svelte
 </h1>
</p>

This VSCode extension enables you to install [shadcn/svelte](https://shadcn-svelte.com) components directly from your IDE ✨.

## Initialize the Shadcn/Svelte CLI

![to initialize CLI open the command palette and search for shadcn/svelte: install cli command](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/selemondev/vscode-shadcn-svelte/master/src/assets/images/init-cli.png)

## Install components

![to initialize CLI open the command palette and search for shadcn/svelte: add new component](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/selemondev/vscode-shadcn-svelte/master/src/assets/images/add-new-component.png)

## Choose a component to install from the list

![choose a component to install from the list](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/selemondev/vscode-shadcn-svelte/master/src/assets/images/add-new-component-preview.png)

## Install multiple components

![install multiple components](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/selemondev/vscode-shadcn-svelte/master/src/assets/images/add-multiple-components.png)

## Choose components to install from the list
![choose components to install from the list](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/selemondev/vscode-shadcn-svelte/master/src/assets/images/add-multiple-components-preview.png)

## Open the Shadcn-Svelte documentation

![open the shadcn-svelte documentation](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/selemondev/vscode-shadcn-svelte/master/src/assets/images/shadcn-svelte-docs.png)

## Navigate to a particular component's documentation page

![navigate to a particular component's documentation page](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/selemondev/vscode-shadcn-svelte/master/src/assets/images/shadcn-svelte-component-docs.png)

## Shadcn/Svelte Snippets

Easily import and use shadcn-svelte components with ease using snippets within VSCode. Just type `cn` or `shadcn` in your svelte file and choose from an array of components to use.

![shadcn-svelte-snippets-example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/selemondev/vscode-shadcn-svelte/master/src/assets/images/shadcn-svelte-import.png)

### How it works

| Snippet           | Description                            |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| `cn-help`         | How to use shadcn/svelte snippets      |
| `cni-[component]` | Adds imports for the component         |
| `cnx-[component]` | Adds the markup for the svelte component|

### How to use?

1. Components

For `Alert` component, type `cni-alert` to add imports in your svelte file, and to use the component, use `cnx-alert`.

> Similarly, for any other component, use `cni-[component]` to add imports and `cnx-[component]` to use.

```tsx
// cni-alert
import * as Alert from "$lib/components/ui/alert"

// cnx-alert
<Alert.Root>
  <Alert.Title>Heads up!</Alert.Title>
  <Alert.Description>
    You can add components to your app using the cli.
  </Alert.Description>
</Alert.Root>
```

### How to contribute?

Contributions are welcome and encouraged! If you have any ideas or suggestions for new features, or if you encounter any bugs or issues, please open an issue or submit a pull request on the GitHub repository. 

Developers interested in contributing should read the [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and the [Contributing Guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

Use this link - [Snippet Generation](https://snippet-generator.app/?description=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.shadcn-svelte.com%2Fdocs%2Fcomponents&tabtrigger=shadcn-&snippet=&mode=vscode) to generate snippets and add/update them to the `snippets` folder that is located in the `src` accordingly.


### Credits 

All credits go to the creators of these amazing projects:

- [Shadcn UI](https://ui.shadcn.com) for creating this amazing project.
- [Shadcn Svelte](https://shadcn-svelte.com) for creating the Svelte port of Shadcn UI.
- [Bits UI](https://www.bits-ui.com/docs/introduction) for doing all the hard work to make sure components are accessible.

Commit message:

docs: document shadcn-svelte@next snippets

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
 <img align="center" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/selemondev/vscode-shadcn-svelte/master/src/images/icon.png" height="96" />
 <h1 align="center">
  shadcn-svelte
 </h1>
</p>

This VSCode extension enables you to install [shadcn/svelte](https://shadcn-svelte.com) components directly from your IDE ✨.

## Initialize the Shadcn/Svelte CLI

![to initialize CLI open the command palette and search for shadcn/svelte: install cli command](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/selemondev/vscode-shadcn-svelte/master/src/assets/images/init-cli.png)

## Install components

![to initialize CLI open the command palette and search for shadcn/svelte: add new component](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/selemondev/vscode-shadcn-svelte/master/src/assets/images/add-new-component.png)

## Choose a component to install from the list

![choose a component to install from the list](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/selemondev/vscode-shadcn-svelte/master/src/assets/images/add-new-component-preview.png)

## Install multiple components

![install multiple components](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/selemondev/vscode-shadcn-svelte/master/src/assets/images/add-multiple-components.png)

## Choose components to install from the list
![choose components to install from the list](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/selemondev/vscode-shadcn-svelte/master/src/assets/images/add-multiple-components-preview.png)

## Open the Shadcn-Svelte documentation

![open the shadcn-svelte documentation](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/selemondev/vscode-shadcn-svelte/master/src/assets/images/shadcn-svelte-docs.png)

## Navigate to a particular component's documentation page

![navigate to a particular component's documentation page](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/selemondev/vscode-shadcn-svelte/master/src/assets/images/shadcn-svelte-component-docs.png)

## Shadcn/Svelte Snippets

Easily import and use shadcn-svelte components with ease using snippets within VSCode. Just type `cn` or `shadcn` in your svelte file and choose from an array of components to use.

![shadcn-svelte-snippets-example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/selemondev/vscode-shadcn-svelte/master/src/assets/images/shadcn-svelte-import.png)

### How it works

| Snippet           | Description                            |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| `cn-help`         | How to use shadcn/svelte snippets      |
| `cn-x-help`       | How to use shadcn/svelte@next snippets |
| `cni-[component]` | Adds imports for the component         |
| `cni-x-[component]`| Adds imports for the shadcn/svelte@next component |
| `cnx-[component]` | Adds the markup for the svelte component|

### How to use?

1. Components

For `Alert` component, type `cni-alert` to add imports in your svelte file, and to use the component, use `cnx-alert`.

> Similarly, for any other component, use `cni-[component]` to add imports and `cnx-[component]` to use.

```tsx
// cni-alert
import * as Alert from "$lib/components/ui/alert"

// cnx-alert
<Alert.Root>
  <Alert.Title>Heads up!</Alert.Title>
  <Alert.Description>
    You can add components to your app using the cli.
  </Alert.Description>
</Alert.Root>
```

### How to contribute?

Contributions are welcome and encouraged! If you have any ideas or suggestions for new features, or if you encounter any bugs or issues, please open an issue or submit a pull request on the GitHub repository. 

Developers interested in contributing should read the [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and the [Contributing Guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md).

Use this link - [Snippet Generation](https://snippet-generator.app/?description=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.shadcn-svelte.com%2Fdocs%2Fcomponents&tabtrigger=shadcn-&snippet=&mode=vscode) to generate snippets and add/update them to the `snippets` folder that is located in the `src` accordingly.


### Credits 

All credits go to the creators of these amazing projects:

- [Shadcn UI](https://ui.shadcn.com) for creating this amazing project.
- [Shadcn Svelte](https://shadcn-svelte.com) for creating the Svelte port of Shadcn UI.
- [Bits UI](https://www.bits-ui.com/docs/introduction) for doing all the hard work to make sure components are accessible.
